yo this is a book review video showed
out to my pressure cooker scene in the
background there my brand new pressure
cooker this school normally does not
allow students to cook or prepare food
in their rooms but I talked to the boss
here I talked to the managing director
she's also vegan and she she made an
exception in my case I think yeah I've
talked with us on patreon I haven't
talked about it on YouTube but I really
have been struggling with my diet here
in many ways and now that I have the
pressure cooker in theory I can cook
beans lately I've been cooking a type of
grain
it's called job's tears it's a
high-protein grain about 4 grams of
protein to 1 gram of fat hopefully
that's gonna make my life here a little
bit easier to injure the book I'm gonna
review was very kindly sent to me about
one of my viewers first book review I've
done in a long time first time I've read
a book in English in a long time one of
things that's depressing about studying
so many foreign languages is that you
really do not spend that much time doing
quality reading in your own language so
this is half Earth a book by a famous
and award-winning scientist named Edward
O Wilson and this handsome hard copy
cover a version of the book you guys may
or may not have seen this on YouTube I
asked one of my viewers to send me a
copy someone who already had it who
already read it sent me a secondhand
copy because the costs of shipping and
so on here in China
this is only printed in America on the
Western world somewhere yeah New York
and London
it just was impossible justify the cost
would have cost me like 40 40 plus US
dollars and as I could tell just by
looking on the internet it's not that
much of a book I realize it doesn't look
too skinny but in terms of the amount of
words per page this is a very slim 200
and some page volume which does not have
a lot to say right off the bat that is
one of the weaknesses of this book it is
light now I have worked as a
professional editor of nonfiction most
of being academic non fiction and
nonfiction written by professors and
what have you and I can imagine the
struggles that the editors have with
this book it is very poorly written
I mean I should say off the bat like for
me it's red a bowl I asked for a copy of
this book I didn't buy it I asked my
viewers to send me copies but by the way
the guy who gave the gift thank you very
much but he he chooses to remain
anonymous
he said just just let people know it was
sent in by an American viewer so thanks
to you thanks to the USA um the title of
the book is really the best part of the
book it's called half earth and that's
almost all you need to know about it the
guys thesis is that 50% of the earth
should be transformed into nature
conservation areas protected areas
biodiversity conservation areas whatever
you want to say for the future of the
ecological service of the planet that's
all you need to know that's the best
part of the book that's the concept
that's it there is there is absolutely
nothing else about this book that's
worth reading or worth knowing and on
the contrary if you force yourself to
read any significant percentage of this
book you run into many of the problems I
had myself with career academics to give
an example so Edward o Wilson he is a
distinguished scientist he knows nothing
about writing he's a very very poor
creative writer but he also knows
nothing about economics now the most
obvious flaw in this plan or question I
mean most crushing obstacle to someone
who actually wanted to make 50% of the
planet into biodiversity conservation
areas into national parks or something
of that kind is economic you know with a
country like Canada it's easy to
visualize because we have so much
seemingly empty land in reality when you
look into it that land is exploited
economically in various ways whether
it's for timber or for mining or whether
it's disused abandoned land that's
already been destroyed by activities
such as timber and mining industries
pulp and paper industry resource
extraction but still you look at the map
of Canada and think oh well hmm could 50
percent of Canada be national parks
seems-seems viable okay let's look at a
country like Tonga
Tonga is poverty-stricken both in terms
well it's not even such the poverty of
the people the poverty of the government
the impossibility of the government ever
digging itself out of debt the
impossibility of the government ever
meeting the costs of things like health
care and infrastructure and education
and yes you know the poverty of the
people the citizens of Tonga is also
considerable but it's not the kind of
acute and extreme poverty you might you
know visualize from I don't know
newspaper headlines Tonga isn't that
badly off but there are very very real
problem Shirley
do you want to take Tonga the tiny
struggling island nation of Tonga and
making it to fifty percent of it into
national parks how is that gonna work
economically an example you guys will be
shocked to hear me mention this this
scarf is made in Cambodia by the way um
you know how about Cambodia
how about Laos about any of those
countries I'm familiar with when I was
in Laos again I did work inside the
government and that's really not saying
anything Laos is a communist country a
huge percentage of the population are
employed by the government but I did
spend a lot of time talking to
government officials and so on and I
mean what Laos is doing that time was
declaring special protected areas they
were called biodiversity conservation
areas but the reality was economic
exploitation within those areas was
intensive so trees were being cut down
industries of various kinds were being
pursued economic development was being
pursued and those areas included you
know villages and towns they weren't
depopulated empty areas such as we in
Canada can boast of you know they were
areas that had indigenous people you
know tribal people still living in
tribes but also settled populations of
farmers and a whole industries
what-have-you and you know they say
they're gonna declare a you know
biodiversity conservation area but then
what does that really mean in practice
I'm completing peculiar Achilles heels
of this book and it has many is the fact
that it mentions the current statistic
maintained by the United Nations is that
already fifteen percent one five percent
of the world consists of protected areas
but when you look into that I think
there are seven different categories of
protected areas and in some cases
protected does really does not mean much
you know you talking about a protected
area but it's actually being operated as
a ski
Lodge you know as a tourist oriented you
know theme park the subtrees in it or
something I remember last time the US
had the Winter Olympics I I don't care
much but the longest distance memory but
I remember seeing a documentary looking
at the national parks in that part of
United States and how intensely they
were being exploited for the Olympics
and for tourism and just how weak their
claim was to being a national park or to
being a conservation area and these
types of problems but I mean when you
read the the few pages this has about
economics it's just it's laughable a
child could refute it when I was 11
years old I could have refuted this I
might have been a very strange 11 year
old but I mean I you know I really
wasn't the boy genius I was 11 I think I
was still playing Sega Master System and
was still playing video games I was a
normal kid but the economic argument is
absolutely laughable it's it's complete
garbage and it reminded me of you know
especially in anthropology I would meet
these people who had achieved some level
of success and distinction anthropology
they had PhDs they'd done research but
then as soon as the question turned to
politics they would try to show how
sophisticated they were by making you
know very edgy and extreme statements
about economics economic theory but all
it showed was that you know they were
just pitiably ignorant they did not have
a 101 level education in economics they
did not understand the basics and they
were just accustomed to going to
cocktail parties with other people in
their discipline and making these
statements about economics and having
other people probably have glasses of
wine in their hands probably enjoying
themselves who are not in a position to
really scrutinize them even if they know
better they're not gonna say it you know
nodding their heads or acting amused or
approving of them I mean you know really
my feeling about Edward o Wilson he
believed in the footnotes he says he
first put forward this idea in print the
half-hour thesis in the year 2002 I'm
guessing that between 2002 and 2016 he's
been to a lot of cocktail parties and he
has just become very accustomed to
putting this idea forth in the company
of people who are not really gonna
criticize him not really gonna
scrutinize his claims and oh oh and love
let me tell you what I have to say about
economics and what the impacts will be
in the fourth
he is just not used to presenting this
to any kind of crowd who would actually
scrutinize it or even think through
practically the steps are implementation
now of course the irony is do I
sympathize with the hypothesis yes the
only reason why I have this book is that
the basic concept appeals to me it
appeals to me that scientists would sit
down crunch the numbers and say look
let's come up with a target where we
have to draw a line on the map and
really say this is the minimum
requirement for different types of
forests this is how much rainforest we
need this is how much old-growth forests
in northern Canada we need you that
you're gonna grow it draw up a series of
requirements so that wild species can
continue exist and so that this is a
United Nations term so that ecological
services are still provided to humanity
ecological services is a bizarre term it
is heavily used by the United Nations
but the point is that if we don't have
enough forests existing then in a sense
we don't have enough drinking water or
we don't have the rain cycle we don't
even have enough some of the things that
happen with soil before us can be
tremendously important for so actually
again this is a very United Nations way
of thinking about the world but
especially in third-world countries that
they're trying to assist very often UN
programs will try to make up a list of
what are the crucial ecological services
provided by a certain type of forest and
that may be everything from maintaining
the the stability of a river system we
knew that you want to prevent soil
erosion you need the forests to hold the
land together down to for example Forest
Products non-timber Forest Products that
indigenous people collect they may be
tribal people who really earn their
living from gathering of things in the
force so where I was you know Ratan some
of it resembles wicker rattan was
gathered by the forest all kinds of
things together before is obviously a
very unbeaten example fir if you have
fur trappers who rely on wild animals in
the forest if you people gathering
mushrooms that rely on the forest where
you can actually itemize the ecological
services so these are things provided
humanity such as having drinking water
or air to breathe and then you can try
to come up with estimates for how much
forest you need to conserve for those
reasons and this of course the emphasis
is also on how much wilderness and
habitat you need to preserve so that the
species themselves will remain intact
well
continue to exist on planet earth uh
there's no point I mean you know every
Oh Wilson is a terrible author the
quality of writing is abysmal he does
not think about what his audience needs
to hear what they don't need to hear
there are many parts of this book where
it's just like he's getting into the
definition of a term the meaning of a
word where it's like anyone advanced
enough to want to read this book
couldn't possibly benefit from this
discussion not just many many of the
discussion many pages are taken up with
software um
nobody who is at the level of interest
to read this book could possibly been
affirmed he didn't think about his
audience or who they are what questions
didn't ask and then the other hand the
really deep problems that are raised by
this hypothesis are not dealt with it
all or kind of laughed at it and run
roughshod over economically I mean he
relies on an incredibly weak comparison
to the current and ongoing history of
digital technology so many of you know
about this there are these kind of
fashionable statistics of pointing out
you know on on the software side or on
the hardware side how computers are
being more and more productive with less
and less material now whether that's the
computer performing more computational
tasks on a smaller and smaller scale or
you actually want to talk about the
amount of material you know the amount
of metal being used or if you want to
calculate it in a more you know abstract
sense in terms of the the amount of data
being processed in relation to the
amount of electricity being used or
what-have-you
yes computer technology is an example of
a sector of the economy where you look
at just the final product you can have
these seemingly very impressive examples
of how the intensivity the the
productivity the amount of you know
output given the same amount of input
seems to with time double or quadruple
or grow exponentially at university my
time okay great thanks yeah thanks for
pointing out the complete obvious Edward
o Wilson but we were talking about
resource use and habitat conservation
etc so um now let's talk about meat do
you think that cows are going to become
exponentially more productive in the
same way do you think cows are going to
produce more and more milk or more and
more beef in the same way that the
progress of science has allowed the same
amount of meth
and silicone and plastic to produce more
and more data it makes absolutely no
sense I mean there are other critiques
of that that technology model I can
remember the the bad old days of
computers the first portable computer I
ever lifted was an Olivetti port
portable a solid steel monstrosity and
the exterior was steel that you know an
elderly person could not lift it would
take it some people use two hands to
lift this portable computer and of
course it had an old-fashioned monitor
and had two disk drives the true floppy
disks back when floppy disks were
actually floppy it was this horrible
monstrosity incredibly inefficient
compared to date today's computers in
terms of its weight the amount of
materials used the amount of electricity
used etc but guess what the actual
productivity of a human being using that
computer is remarkably similar to the
computers we have today computer I have
today is much more powerful than the
computer that was used to put a man on
the moon decades and decades ago it's
it's so much more powerful and yet when
I sit down and do word processing when I
sit down and write an essay it's not
actually any more productive the amount
of time it takes my computer to start up
may be a little bit quicker but that's
about it so again even in a business
context if you say how much time does it
take Edward o Wilson to write this book
to sit down and type it at a computer
with a computer manufactured in 2016 as
opposed to a computer manufactured in
1996 the computer itself is more
powerful but that does not really equate
to more economic productivity this is
one of many many aspects but obviously
if we're looking at a social scale
computers are not a representative part
of the world economy they're a
completely unique hollow type within the
world economy and the concerns this guy
has should be about would should be
about you know if you want to make a
table out of wood in the year 2016 and
you think about the forest production
the timber production behind that do you
think that has changed dramatically
between 1996 and 2016 the productivity
involved in some ways making furniture
out of wood hasn't changed that much in
200 years you know terms of what we rely
on the ecological services the
ecological footprint the exports
yes I mean you're one thing you can just
make a table out of plastic you could in
1996 also but the the economic reasoning
here where he simply says oh well this
is how the computer industry is
transformed therefore this is how the
whole economy is going to transform and
in the future we don't need to worry
about giving up 50% of our land for
conservation of habitat
it's totally surreal and totally
laughable even computers do not really
work that way but manufacture of
furniture out of wood doesn't work that
way and for vegans the most painful part
is ignoring food you know sorry but I
mean food clothing furniture in terms of
ecological impact in the existence of
human civilization on the scale of
billions of people these are really the
big questions
sorry computers are simply not a
question for the future of our
civilization and yes you know the fact
that you have billions of people eating
cows and chickens is of such outstanding
importance that even if you're not vegan
if you're just someone with a sincere
interest in you know the future planet
Earth you you have to pay attention to
this so it's again this is this
technological you know dead end of
reasoning that he leads us into what do
you think do you think that the the
technological improvements to cattle
ranching and chicken farming do you
think those will result in the future
starting to mean do you think it's gonna
result in exponentially more and more
productivity for meat and less and less
use of resources such as water we don't
even have to talk about land and food I
mean the food that's fed to cattle and
pigs you know things are all ridiculous
obviously they can't get more efficient
well they okay they can get so slightly
more efficient because factory farming
can become even more immoral cruel and
you know inhumane to these animals yes
you can refine the factory farming
process to be even more efficient to
feed these animals less to slaughter
them more rapidly to make them grow more
quickly etc but even when you when you
add it up on a global scale there's just
no sense in which you can look to the
future and think of the production of
chicken meat cow milk beef pork is going
to for example use exponentially less
water x
less land and the use of land includes
the land that's currently producing feed
for those animals so this is really
offering a kind of dangerous series of
techno philic delusions along with a
thesis that although I sympathize with
it is neither proven nor even discussed
an interesting manner in this book so
for me even though I'm very strongly
biased in favor of this author I have to
regard this as as a complete failure now
how does this fit into the history of
ecology and our times to me this is
really like a kind of sad appendix to
the games that have gone on at the
United Nations if you look at the
discourse on ecological sustainability
at the UN the the crucial issue has been
actually the delusion that technology
can solve our problems the United Nation
guidelines basically draw up that the
world's population can continue to
expand that the amount of land we're
exploiting can continue to expand etc
etc and indeed as you guys know from
this channel from where else that the
amount of meat we're producing continue
to expand on the assumption that
technology is going to increasingly
render ecological services obsolete and
reparable that somehow the progress of
technology is going to mean that a city
like kunming or a city like Toronto
that's sitting on a lake will be less
and less reliant on the water that is in
that lake that ecological services are
going to be replaced with time by
technological services back when I was
in university I read the actual United
Nations documents that define
sustainability and the basically the
minutes of the meetings where they came
up with this how sustainability was
going to be defined and measured and
what the United Nations protocol for
this was going to be this is known as
within political science the
substitutability hypothesis so it's the
idea that technology and human
innovation can provide substitutes for
ecological services now I probably do
not need to spell it out for you guys
anyone who has done five minutes of
research this also falls in the class of
ideas that a child could refute the
extent to which technology can provide
substitutes for ecological services is
incredibly
is it possible for human beings to
collect their own urine and have a
machine that processes the urine so that
it becomes drinking water so that those
human beings do not rely on rainfall or
lakes or rivers you know getting fresh
so that Mexico City doesn't have to
worry about pumping up water from from
deep well reserves yes that is true to a
tiny extent but if you think that Mexico
City could actually provide a hundred
percent of its drinking water from
processed urine you're insane
I mean if you just look into it if you
do five minutes of research on it you
realize that this is not even 1% of the
problem can be deprotonate this way that
no actually from Mexico City and all of
these over for the future of Las Vegas
Nevada the question of the finite nature
of ecologic 'el services whether we're
talking about rivers or the forests that
ultimately create the rain cycle for
those rivers etc etc that know actually
all of our civilization sits in a
tremendously delicate balance and it's
just not the case that now or in future
we're gonna be able to flip a switch and
provide fundamental things like water
we're gonna provide water out of thin
air you know to to replace ecologic
services once they're damaged destroyed
what have you I mean one of the ultimate
examples of that is the reliance on
desalinization plants can technology
converts seawater into fresh drinking
water it can but the cost is
unbelievably high the cost and energy
etc so then what you're burning coal in
order to convert salt water into fresh
drinking water that does happen all over
the world
it happens in oil-rich nations it
happens to my knowledge during the
drought it has been happening again in
California but it's the extent to which
technology can actually supply these
services once the oil service is
destroyed is incredibly limited so what
can I say half earth the only thing you
need to know about this book basically
is the title some scientists came up
with this idea that we should aim for
the target of having 50% of the world be
protected areas by United Nations
definition were already at 15% and it's
not solving any of our problems sadly to
me this book raises many interesting
questions but none of those questions
are discussed in the book there's
absolutely
nothing interesting within the book so
the book is a total disappointment to me
this book primarily reminds me of one
the dangerous delusion that people who
know nothing about economics believe
they have a powerful insight into
economics because they've never been
challenged they'd never even engaged in
casual conversations about the topic
they've just been going to cocktail
parties the other people at page D's in
their own field and it also reminds me
of the dangerous delusions but the
progress of science is technology itself
delusions that are so influential partly
because of the United Nations guidelines
and sustainability and the so called
substitutability hypothesis as if folks
thanks for hanging in with me